[AI-5181] CloudGen Firewall Integration PR (#20344)
DataDog/integrations-core: cloudgen_firewall/README.md

Reviewer: Adding a brief summary here of the product as well as what the integration includes (i.e. ready to use dashboards) will be helpful here.

Author: Can we know where?

    ```yaml
      logs_enabled: true
    ```

2. Add this configuration block to your `cloudgen_firewall.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your cloudgen_firewall logs:

    ```yaml
      logs:
        - type: file
          path:  /var/log/cloudgen_firewall.log
          source: cloudgen_firewall
          service: <SERVICE_NAME>
    ```

    Change the `path` and `service` parameter values for your environment.

3. [Restart the Agent][4].

### Installation

The cloudgen_firewall check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package.

### Prerequisites

1. Administrative access to Barracuda CloudGen Firewall installed on your server.
2. The Datadog Agent installed and running (on a server or container that can receive syslog messages).
3. Network Access between the firewall and the Datadog Agent (usually port 514, but may be a custom value).
4. Syslog support enabled in the Datadog Agent (with a TCP or UDP  listener configured).

### Validation

1. Confirm the Datadog Agent is listening on the correct port (`514` in the following examples)
    `sudo netstat -tunlp | grep 514`
    If using TCP and UDP listeners, use the following command:
    `sudo lsof -i :514`

> 2. Confirm logs are reaching the Agent from the correct log source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Confirm logs are reaching the Agent from the correct log source:
```

    `tail -f /var/log/datadog/syslog.log`
**Note**: If the file doesn't exist, verify that syslog logs are being written by your configuration.
3. Use the tcpdump command to confirm network traffic. On the Datadog Agent host:
    `sudo tcpdump -i any port 514`
After running this command, you should see traffic from the CloudGen Firewall IP address. If you don't see any such traffic, check the firewall rules between CloudGen and the Datadog Agent. Confirm the correct protocol (UDP or TCP) is being used on both sides.
4. Check the Datadog [Live Tail][7] in Datadog for logs from the source and service you defined in the `conf.yaml` file.
5. After following these steps, you can create a test log on the firewall by triggering an event.
6. Check for tags or facets to use them for better filtering based on the required data.

### Metrics

> cloudgen_firewall does not include any metrics.

Reviewer: Can replace with - "The Barracuda CloudGen Firewall integration does not include any metrics."

> ### Metrics

Reviewer 2: Suggesting a reordering of headings here for logical flow

### Log collection
## Data Collected
The Barracuda CloudGen Firewall logs contain key information such as the event timestamp, source and destination IPs and ports, protocol used, firewall action (allow/deny), the matched rule name, user identity (if available), log type (e.g., firewall, VPN, authentication), network interface, device name, and status of the operation, all of which help monitor traffic behavior, access control, and system activity and many more which are collected by DataDog.

### Events

> The cloudgen_firewall integration includes log events such as failed logins and rule hits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cloudgen_firewall integration does not include any events.
```

Reviewer 2: Changing this because `creates_events` is `false` in the manifest file. This section is for events going to Datadog's [Event Management](https://docs.datadoghq.com/service_management/events/) platform, rather than Log Management.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][3].

[1]: https://www.barracuda.com/products/network-protection/cloudgen-firewall

> [2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings/agent/latest
> [3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
> [4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
> [5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/integrations?search=barracuda_cloudgen_firewall
> [6]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/cloudgen_firewall/assets/service_checks.json
> [7]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs/livetail

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[2]: /account/settings/agent/latest
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[5]: /integrations?search=barracuda_cloudgen_firewall
[6]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/cloudgen_firewall/assets/service_checks.json
[7]: /logs/livetail
```

Reviewer 2: Links that lead to the Datadog app need to be relative, so that they work regardless of the Datadog site being used.

Additionally, links `[5]` and `[6]` are not being used in the page. Could you confirm if this is expected, and remove them if so?

## Setup

### Installation

The cloudgen_firewall check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package.
Barracuda cloudGen Firewall installation is needed on your server.

### Configuration

1. Barracuda CloudGen Firewall with Administrative access.
2. DataDog Agent installed and running(server or container that can receive syslog).
3. Network Access between firewall and the dataDog agent (usually port 514 or custom).
4. Syslog support enabled in Datadog Agent (tcp/udp listener configured).

### Validation

1. Confirm Datadog Agent is listening on the right port (eg., 514)
    sudo netstat -tunlp | grep 514
OR, for TCP/UDP listeners:
    sudo lsof -i :514
2. Confirm logs are reaching to the Agent and check for specific log source.
    tail -f /var/log/datadog/syslog.log
(If file doesn't exists, verify that syslog logs are being written by your config).
3. Use tcpdump to confirm network traffic. On datadog Agent host:
    sudo tcpdump -i any port 514
You should see traffic from the cloudGen Firwewall IP address. if not, check firewall rules between cloudGen and Agent. Confirm the correct protocol (UDP/TCP) is being used on both sides.

> 4. Check Live Tail in Datadog. Filter by source and service as defined in conf.yaml.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Check the Datadog [Live Tail][7] in Datadog for logs from the source and service you defined in the `conf.yaml` file.
```

> 5. Create a Test Log on the firewall by triggering an event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. After following these steps, you can create a test log on the firewall by triggering an event.
```

> 6. Check parsing and tagging in datadog.

Reviewer 2: What should a user check for? Are there any [processors](https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_configuration/processors/) that might be helpful for users here?

> 7. Use a Dashboard that is created to track volume over time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Suggesting to delete this step as it's unrelated to validating the integration. 

With that said, I'm open to including it somewhere else if you think this is important information for users of this integration. If so, would it be possible to provide some guidelines for users who might want to set up such a dashboard, or alternatively link to another page, such as the [log volume control](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/set_up_pipelines/log_volume_control/) page?

Author: There is no setup required from the user end. Would make sense to delete it.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

cloudgen_firewall does not include any metrics.

> ### Log Collection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Log collection
```

1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in the `datadog.yaml` file with:

    ```yaml
      logs_enabled: true
    ```

2. Add this configuration block to your `cloudgen_firewall.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your cloudgen_firewall logs:

    ```yaml
      logs:
        - type: file
          path:  /var/log/cloudgen_firewall.log
          source: cloudgen_firewall
          service: <SERVICE_NAME>
    ```

>     Change the `path` and `service` parameter values and configure them for your environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Change the `path` and `service` parameter values for your environment.
```

3. [Restart the Agent][4].

### Events

> The cloudgen_firewall integration include recognizable events like messages (eg. login failed, rule hits). These can be surfaced as datadog events with parsing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cloudgen_firewall integration includes log events such as failed logins and rule hits.
```

Reviewer 2: Since this seems to be a description of the log events generated by the integration, this information would be a good fit for the `### Log collection` section. If the integration does not produce any Datadog events by default, please indicate that `cloudgen_firewall does not include any events`, or, alternatively, provide users with guidance or a link to transform their log events into Datadog events with parsing.
